Docker:
--------
Docker is an application that runs containers on your machine. 
Docker is a technology that provides the tools for you to build, run, test, and deploy distributed applications in containers.
It is a open-source centralized platform designed to create, deploy, and run applications.
Docuker is written on go-language.
Docuker uses container on host OS to run applications.
we can install docker on any OS but docker engine natively runs on Linux distribution.
Docker performs OS Level vertialization also known as containerization.
It was initially release in march 2023, and developed by solomon and Sebastian pahl.


-> Logically dividing a single physical server into multiple VMs - Thats called VM Technology.
	Inside physical server, we have hypervisor and run multiple VMs.
	Example: Microservices for Roboshop Project:
				Cart -> Need to create one VM(server)
				User -> VM
				Catalogue -> VM

Container:
------------
-> Inside VM, we can run multiple containers. so that we can even improve resource utilization.
	Example: Microservices for Roboshop Project: We can create one single VM, then create multiple containers in same VM
				Cart -> Container
				User -> Container
				Catalogue -> Container

Installation of Docker: 
-------------------------
Create one EC2 in AWS console and launch it.

To install Docker on Amazon Linux 2 or Amazon Linux 2023
Update the installed packages and package cache on your instance.

$ sudo yum update -y

Install the most recent Docker Community Edition package.

For Amazon Linux 2, run the following:

$ sudo amazon-linux-extras install docker

For Amazon Linux 2023, run the following:

$ sudo yum install -y docker

Start the Docker service.

$ sudo service docker start

Add the ec2-user to the docker group so that you can run Docker commands without using sudo.

$ sudo usermod -a -G docker ec2-user

Pick up the new docker group permissions by logging out and logging back in again. To do this, close your current SSH terminal window and reconnect to your instance in a new one. Your new SSH session should have the appropriate docker group permissions.

Verify that the ec2-user can run Docker commands without using sudo.

$ docker ps

You should see the following output, confirming that Docker is installed and running:

CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS               NAMES



